content: add list how-to guide (#120)
web3-storage/docs: docs/how-tos/list.md

---
title: List

> description: Learn how to list the files you've uploaded to Web3.Storage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to list the files you've uploaded to Web3.Storage in this quick how-to guide.
```
(for consistency with other how-tos)

---

# How to list files uploaded to Web3.Storage

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this how-to guide, you'll learn about the different ways that you can **list the files that you've uploaded to Web3.Storage.**
```

(for consistency with other how-tos)

> Once you've [stored some files][howto-store] using Web3.Storage, you can see a list of everything you've uploaded on the [Files page on the Web3.Storage website][site-files].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you've [stored some files][howto-store] using Web3.Storage, you'll want to see a list of what you've uplodaded. There are two ways you can do this:
- Using the 

## Using the Web3.Storage website

You can see a list of everything you've uploaded to Web3.Storage on the [Files page][site-files] on the Web3.Storage website. If you don't need to work with this list programmatically, using the website may be a simpler choice.
```
Adding some introductory comment to emphasize:
- there are two ways you can list files
- the programmatic one is preferable unless you're just looking for something simple

![A screenshot of the file listing available at https://web3.storage/files when logged in to your account](../images/files-listing.png)

> The [Files page][site-files] provides a convenient overview of your stored data, with links to view your files using an [IPFS gateway][ipfs-docs-gateway] and information about how the data is being stored on the [decentralized storage networks][concepts-decentralized-storage] that Web3.Storage uses under the hood.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This [Files page][site-files] provides a convenient overview of your stored data, including links to view your files in your browser via an [IPFS gateway][ipfs-docs-gateway] and information about how the data is being stored on the [decentralized storage networks][concepts-decentralized-storage] that Web3.Storage uses under the hood.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using the Web3.Storage client
```

> You can also access a listing of your uploads from your application code using the Web3.Storage client. This guide will show you how to use the [JavaScript client library][reference-js-client] to fetch a complete listing of all the data you've uploaded using Web3.Storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To easily integrate Web3.Storage programmatically in your apps or services, you can also access a listing of your uploads from your code using the Web3.Storage client. In the example below, this guide walks through how to use the [JavaScript client library][reference-js-client] to fetch a complete listing of all the data you've uploaded using Web3.Storage.
```

> ## Installing the client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Installing the client
```

In your JavaScript project, add the `web3.storage` package to your dependencies:

```shell
npm install web3.storage
```

> ## Creating a client instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Creating a client instance
```

To create a `Web3Storage` client object, we need to pass an access token into the [constructor][reference-js-constructor]:

<<<@/code-snippets/how-to/index.js#makeStorageClient

:::tip

> You can use any access token associated with your account, not just the one you used to upload your files! See the [Generate API token page][howto-gen-token] for more about token management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use any API token associated with your account, not just the one you originally used to upload your files! See the [Generate API token page][howto-gen-token] for more about token management.
```

:::

> ## Listing your uploads

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Listing your uploads
```

> The `Web3Storage` client object's `list` method returns an [async iterable][js-async-iterable-explainer] that can be used with the [`for await` syntax][mdn-for-await-of] to read information about each upload as soon as it's received over the network.

Reviewer: Can you please add a link for ``'list' method` once it gets added to the client library page?

- `cid` contains the [IPFS Content Identifier (CID)][ipfs-docs-cid] that identifies the uploaded data. This CID can be used to [retrieve][howto-retrieve] the uploaded files or get more detailed [status information][howto-query].
- `created` contains an [ISO-8601 datetime string][iso-8601] indicating when the content was first uploaded to Web3.Storage.
- `dagSize` contains the size in bytes of the [Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG)][ipfs-docs-merkle-dag] that contains all the uploaded content. This is the size of the data that is transferred over the network to Web3.Storage during upload, and is slightly larger than the total size of the files on disk.
- `pins` contains an array of objects describing the IPFS nodes that have [pinned][ipfs-docs-pinning] the data, making it available for fast retrieval using the IPFS network.
- `deals` contains an array of objects describing the Filecoin storage providers that have made [storage deals][fil-docs-deals]. These storage providers have committed to storing the data for an agreed period of time.

> ::: tip "Want more details about storage?"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
::: tip Want more details about storage?
```
No quotes necessary 😊

The `Upload` objects returned by the `list` method include some basic status information about how the data is stored on IPFS and Filecoin. For more details, including the identity of the storage providers hosting your data, you can [query an upload's status][howto-query] using the the `cid`.
:::

> ### Listing a subset of uploads

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Listing a subset of uploads
```

> By default the `list` method returns information about all uploads made using your Web3.Storage account. You can optionally restrict the listing to contain entries that were uploaded before a given timestamp, and you can also limit the total number of returned entries.

Reviewer: Can you please add a link for ``'list' method` once it gets added to the client library page?

> By default the `list` method returns information about all uploads made using your Web3.Storage account. You can optionally restrict the listing to contain entries that were uploaded before a given timestamp, and you can also limit the total number of returned entries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default. the `list` method returns information about all uploads made using your Web3.Storage account. You can optionally restrict the listing in two ways:
-  Only contain entries that were uploaded before a given timestamp.
- Limit the total number of returned entries.
```

> Here's an example of fetching the first ten uploads made on the previous day:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's an example of fetching the first 10 uploads made on the previous day:
```

<<<@/code-snippets/how-to/index.js#listWithLimits

[howto-store]: ./store.md
[howto-retrieve]: ./retrive.md
[howto-query]: ./query.md
[howto-gen-token]: ./generate-api-token.md
[concepts-decentralized-storage]: ../concepts/decentralized-storage.md
[reference-js-client]: ../../reference/client-library.md

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[reference-js-constructor]: ../reference/client-library.md#constructor
```
to fix a broken link above

### Installing the client

In your JavaScript project, add the `web3.storage` package to your dependencies:

```shell
npm install web3.storage
```

### Creating a client instance

To create a `Web3Storage` client object, we need to pass an access token into the [constructor][reference-js-constructor]:

<<<@/code-snippets/how-to/index.js#makeStorageClient

:::tip
You can use any API token associated with your account, not just the one you originally used to upload your files! See the [Generate API token page][howto-gen-token] for more about token management.
:::

### Listing your uploads

The `Web3Storage` client object's [`list` method][reference-js-list] returns an [async iterable][js-async-iterable-explainer] that can be used with the [`for await` syntax][mdn-for-await-of] to read information about each upload as soon as it's received over the network.

Here's an example that logs details about each upload to the console:

<<<@/code-snippets/how-to/index.js#listUploads

Each `Upload` object will look something like this:

> <!-- TODO: replace with example that includes deal status -->

Reviewer 2: You can grab the example from the client reference, I got one there:

```json
{
  "name": "cat pics",
  "cid": "bafkreifzjut3te2nhyekklss27nh3k72ysco7y32koao5eei66wof36n5e",
  "created": "2021-07-14T19:27:14.934572Z",
  "dagSize": 101,
  "pins": [{
    "peerId": "12D3KooWR1Js",
    "peerName": "peerName",
    "region": "peerRegion",
    "status": "Pinned"
  }],
  "deals": [{
    "dealId": 12345,
    "miner": "f99",
    "status": "Active",
    "pieceCid": "bafkreifzjut3te2nhyekklss27nh3k72ysco7y32koao5eei66wof36n5e",
    "dataCid": "bafkreifzjut3te2nhyekklss27nh3k72ysco7y32koao5eei66wof36n5e",
    "dataModelSelector": "Links/0/Links",
    "activation": "2021-07-14T19:27:14.934572Z",
    "created": "2021-07-14T19:27:14.934572Z",
    "updated": "2021-07-14T19:27:14.934572Z"
  }]
}
```

Author: good call, thanks 👍
